MCP server
How to configure the Canva Dev MCP server for an AI-assisted developer experience.

Copy page

The Canva Dev Model Context Protocol (MCP) server provides AI-powered development assistance for Canva apps and integrations. By connecting your preferred MCP client (such as Cursor, Claude Desktop, or other compatible tools) to canva.dev, you can access specialized tools and documentation to enhance your development workflow.

Before you begin
To follow this guide, you'll need to install the following prerequisites:

git
Node.js v20 (or later)
npm
A compatible MCP client. For example, Cursor, Claude Desktop.
If you need help with any of these prerequisites, including how to set up the required tooling, see the Canva Apps Prerequisites.

Step 1: Configure your MCP client
Each MCP client requires specific configuration to communicate with the Canva Dev MCP server. Follow the instructions below for your client.

In your project directory, create the configuration directory and file:

mkdir -p .cursor
touch .cursor/mcp.json
SHELL

Copy
Add the following configuration to .cursor/mcp.json:

{
  "mcpServers": {
    "canva": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "-y",
        "@canva/cli@latest",
        "mcp"
      ]
    }
  }
}
JSON

Copy
For more information, see the Cursor MCP documentation.






Step 2: Restart your MCP client
Save all configuration changes.
Restart your MCP client (for example, Cursor, Claude Desktop, or VS Code) to apply the new settings.
Step 3: Verify the connection
To confirm your MCP server is working:

Look for visual indicators in your client.

For example, in Claude Desktop, you should see:

A hammer icon (indicating available tools).
A plug icon (for Canva Dev resources access).
Ask a simple question to test the connection. For example:

How many components are in the App UI Kit?

If your connection is successful, your client should display a tool invocation prompt for you to accept.

MCP tool confirmation dialog

MCP tools are LLM-controlled and can't be invoked directly. To invoke the MCP tools using your agent or LLM, include relevant keywords in your queries such as "App UI Kit", "Apps SDK", or request specific Canva documentation references.
Troubleshooting
If your MCP client can't find enabled tools:

Make sure the MCP server is configured correctly (see Step 1).
Restart the application to refresh your client.
If you receive incorrect or inconsistent responses:

Try starting a new chat session to reset the conversation context.
Be specific in your queries and include relevant keywords such as "App UI Kit" or "Apps SDK".
Request explicit references to Canva documentation.
Security and privacy
The MCP server operates locally on your device, fetching Canva documentation from canva.dev and other sources. Your AI agent receives context and information regarding your Canva app or integration, and uses it to enhance its output and recommendations. The MCP server doesn't transmit your code or prompts to any other sources other than to your AI agent or LLM tool.